#summary Developer/Committer Guidelines for Streeme
#labels Help,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

===Contributing Code===

If you want to contribute code to Streeme, there are a few things you can do to make the process flow smoothly.

Whether you're writing a new feature or fixing an existing bug, it pays to get a second opinion before you get too far. If it's a new feature idea, post to the [https://groups.google.com/group/streeme Streeme discussion group] and propose it.

Not all bugs in our bug system are assigned, but if the one you're interested in fixing is, send a note to the person it's assigned to and ask if they would like a patch.

Behavior changes and anything nontrivial (i.e. anything other than simple cleanups and style fixes) should generally be tracked in the bug system. Please [http://code.google.com/p/streeme/issues/list file a bug] and describe what you're doing if there isn't one already.

===Get your code ready===

 * Code must conform to the [http://trac.symfony-project.org/wiki/HowToContributeToSymfony#CodingStandards Symfony Style Guidelines]: when in doubt, look at the examples in the lib/vendor/symfony dir.
 * Code must be tested, preferably with unit tests. 
 * Source changes should be a reasonable size to review. Giant patches are unlikely to get reviewed quickly, so please do your work in small doses.
 * Use classes and dependency injection whenever possible
 * Streeme is a TDD environment. When changing model classes and helper classes, run the unit tests on Postgres, sqllite and mysql data stores to make sure you haven't broken anything. Unit tests can easily be run by typing 
{{{
./symfony test:unit 
}}}
 * if you are making non trivial javascript commits, please test your changes as widely as you can:

Streeme should be tested for:
 * *Desktop*
    {{{
    OSX( Chrome, Safari, Firefox)
    WIN( Chrome, Safari, Opera, IEb9 and Firefox)
    iPad
    Linux( Firefox, Chrome )
    }}}

 * *mobile*
    {{{
    iPad
    iPhone (OS 4.x+)
    iPod Touch (OS 4.x+)
    Palm Pre( 1.4 series )
    Android( 2.2+ )
    }}}  

===Source Control===

While Streeme is still small, please *develop in a branch* of your choosing. I like to name my branches initials-short decription-version the branch was cut from. eg. rh-add-jplayer-0.2.1. This should help us in staying in sync and knowing when to kill off old branches. *Committers: please do NOT commit to trunk!* if project committers commit to trunk without a branch or communicating with the project owner, they will lose their rights to commit to Streeme. 

===Source Editors===

Whatever your editor, there are a few settings that are important to editing source files in Streeme:
{{{
tab key inserts 2 spaces
default encoding: UTF8
documentation style is Javadoc
}}}

===Language Contributions===

Any user may contribute a language pack - please generate an i18n language module for your language group using the following symfony command where xx is the lower case [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes ISO-639-1 language code]. The following command will build all of the tokens to translate and build a XLIFF file. The file can be opened and edited in the apps/client/i18n folder.

{{{
./symfony i18n:extract client xx --auto-save
}}}

Once you're happy with your translation please attach the XLIFF file to an [http://code.google.com/p/streeme/issues/entry?summary=Language%20Pack%20Ready  issue ticket] and a committer will integrate it into the project. 
Users contributing language packs to the project will be recognized in the contributors list. 

(some portions of this doc are borrowed from the chromium specs)