#summary Web Server Installation on Windows
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

This is the Windows install guide - if you're looking for other platform installation guides, please go back to the [InstallingStreemeStartPage start page of the installation]

Streeme requires the initial installation of a web server package before the script can operate. This method seems to work on Windows XP to Windows 7 x64.

==Installing the Web Server== 

*Log in as an administrator throughout this process*

[http://www.apachefriends.org/en/xampp-windows.html#641 Install XAMPP (EXE Version)]

There is a visual guide on the installation below the download.

*Be sure to turn off IIS* before proceeding with installing xampp. To do that, go to: control panel>administrative tools>services then stop and disable www publishing or World Wide Publishing, whichever it may be. 


===Install Services===

after installing, please go to _C:\xampp\apache_

run/double click {{{apache_installservice.bat}}}

then go to _C:\xampp\mysql_

run/double click {{{mysql_installservice.bat}}}

===Configure Passwords for XAMPP===

open a web browser and go to:

[http://127.0.0.1] or [http://localhost]

Click "Security" > [http://localhost/security/xamppsecurity.php]

Set a password to Mysql, phpMyAdmin and XAMPP 

XAMPP should now tell you everything's secure!

==Configuring the Server== 

Now you've got your bare bones server installed, you'll need to make some edits to the config files before you can proceed. 

===Apache Configs===
The above guide will add apache in a modular setup - to enable/disable modules, you just uncomment them in the configuration file:

open a text editor (start>accessories>notepad) and edit _C:\xampp\apache\conf\httpd.conf_

find these modules and enable them by removing the "#"
{{{  
LoadModule rewrite_module modules/mod_rewrite.so
LoadModule deflate_module modules/mod_deflate.so
}}}

Create the virtual hosts:
It's highly recommended that you choose two *random unused ports* between 1025-9800 and replace the example 8095/8096 pairs. One port is for the media stream and another is for HTML and program communication. Replace d:/web/streeme/web with your own path/to/streeme/web. You can always decide this later or just leave it and install your streeme project to D:/web/streeme. Add the following to the very bottom of your httpd.conf file:

_C:\xampp\apache\conf\httpd.conf_
{{{
# This is the configuration for the streeme app communication path
Listen *:8095

NameVirtualHost *:8095

<VirtualHost *:8095>
  DocumentRoot "d:/web/streeme/web"
  DirectoryIndex index.php
  <Directory "d:/web/streeme/web">
    AllowOverride All
    Allow from All
  </Directory>

  Alias /sf "d:/web/streeme/lib/vendor/symfony/data/web/sf"
  <Directory "d:/web/streeme/lib/vendor/symfony/data/web/sf">
    AllowOverride All
    Allow from All
  </Directory>
</VirtualHost>

# This is the configuration for the music streamer
Listen *:8096

NameVirtualHost *:8096

<VirtualHost *:8096>
  DocumentRoot "d:/web/streeme/web"
  DirectoryIndex index.php
  <Directory "d:/web/streeme/web">
    AllowOverride All
    Allow from All
  </Directory>
</VirtualHost>

#Disable SVN directory sniffing through apache
<Directory ~ ".*\.svn"> 
Order allow,deny 
Deny from all 
Satisfy All 
</Directory> 
}}}

go: Control Panel>Administrative Tools>Services 

find Apache and right click it, then choose {{{restart}}}

If all went well, Windows will report that is "started" in the status column

===PHP Configs===

_C:\xampp\php\php.ini_

 * set {{{magic_quotes_gpc = Off}}}
 * set {{{short_open_tag = Off}}}
 * set {{{memory_limit = 256M}}} or higher  

go: start>applications>command prompt>right click and run command prompt as administrator
type:
 * {{{pear install HTTP_Download}}}

note: If your command prompt can't find the file pear (the php application and extension repository command), you have to change you windows path . To do that, go Control Panel>System>Advanced>Environment Variables. In the both user and system variables, you'll see the word Path. Edit Path for both variables and add {{{;C:/xampp/php;}}} to the end of the entry. Click ok and restart you command prompt. Pear should run now. 

===MySQL Configs===

You will have already set up your MySQL installation previous steps, but there's a couple of easy performance and internationalization tweaks to perform.

_C:\xampp\mysql\bin\my.ini_
{{{
[mysqld]
default-character-set = utf8
default-collation = utf8_unicode_ci
query_cache_type = 1
query_cache_size  = 32M
}}}

===FFMPEG===
Installing FFMPEG for streeme will allow you to transcode music on the fly.

You'll need to download a compiled version of FFMPEG with libmp3 and ogg vorbis 

Download and run the file from the following location

[http://ffmpeg.arrozcru.org/builds/ Unofficial FFMPEG Builds - use  revision 16537 shared
]

download and install the executable in STEP 4 

{{{ffmpeg.exe}}}

keep the location of the install handy for configuring streeme


===Tortoise SVN===
This app relies on a file management and version control system called SVN. Windows users should download and install TortoiseSVN here:

[http://tortoisesvn.net/downloads.html Get Tortoise SVN Here]

===Cleaning Up===

Restart both apache AND mysql services in the "services" panel before you continue:

Continue to [InstallingStreeme Installing Streeme >]